---
title: "Abortion and Other Socially Acceptable Forms of Murder"
sub_title: ""
Date: 2020-05-04
LastMod:
---

[Back to Catalog](https://otaking.xyz/index.html)

I have been reluctantly in favour of abortion for a long time, and after watching this video my opinion has remained unchanged. It is a form of murder but looking at the social consequences banning abortion has it is a socially permissible form of murder. I believe the social consequences of banning abortion in Romania are enough of a justification for this.

But the question then is, if this is a socially permissible form of murder then what other permissible forms of murder are there? What’s the criteria? I am not a pacifist and I believe that some wars are justified consequently I have to accept that it is justifiable to for soldiers to kill the minimum number of combatants and civilians necessary to win wars, as Orwell put it to say that war is evil is a one-eyed view, but then again war is evil. I believe that the same can be said about abortion, that is to say that abortion is evil is a one-eyed view but then again it is evil. The point I am trying to make is that just because an individual is innocent of any crime that doesn’t that it is unjustifiable to kill him or her, and this applies to civilians in a war as much as it does to a baby in a womb.

The analogy that Vee brings up of a private hospital being forced to give expensive life- support to a poor patient brings to the forth the moral dilemma that that I have been facing when it comes to abortion. Is it right for the hospital to be forced to give expensive life-support to the patient who will not be able to pay for it? Is it right to let the poor man die? To state the obvious, the choice seems to me to be between one wrong and another wrong. So ‘why do I choose the woman over the child?’ is the question that those in favour of abortion should ask themselves and ‘why do I choose the baby over the woman?” is the question that those against abortion should ask them selves, now I know some of the people against are going to say “but Stefan, we don’t want the woman to die and they want the child to die, clearly we have the higher moral ground” on a superficial level they do but there is a high likely hood that that child’s and that woman’s life may be ruined. It’s like argument people have about drugs being a victim-less crime when clearly the families of drug addicts have been adversely affected by their drug abuse. I do believe that doctor’s should try to convince a women to not have an abortion by reassuring her that she will still have options in life by bearing that child, but those options actually need to be there, i.e. properly funded orphanages, financial and family support etc… and if the woman still feels that she needs to have an abortion then she must be allowed to have one. Perfect is the enemy of good, I am not satisfied with this solution but to try to find a perfect and final solution by either banning abortions entirely or marketing abortions in a ‘come and have an abortion 2 for the price of 1’ manner as Vee put it is only going to make people morally disgusted and against abortion. In foresight I predict that some may criticise Vee’s analogy for dehumanizing the woman, to that I have to say that they are right to an extent but it also accurately represents the power relationships between the baby and the mother, and for those, if there are any (I hope not) that are bothered that the analogy humanizes the baby by casting as ‘the poor man’, well in the case of late-term abortions it is hard to not consider it a human.

Another form of murder that is socially permissible in many places is the death penalty. I have failed to see any conclusive evidence that the death penalty deters crime but I don’t think it is unjustifiable for the state to kill someone entirely as a form of revenge for the party that has been wronged. I do think however that this lends purely vindictive mode of thinking, or in other words the reason that a woman must not have an abortion is not really because it would harm the child but because the mother should be held responsible for her actions just like a criminal must be killed for his crimes a woman must be punished for her crime, i.e. having sex. I hope that it looks I am setting up a straw-man because that is the gist of argument I have seen the youtuber Black Pigeon Speaks make. The problem with being against abortion and also against the death penalty seems to to be that in one case one has dispense the view that the innocent should not be killed and in the other one has to hold the view that the guilty must not be killed because the potentially innocent must not be killed. Now I am sure that the pro-choice people will say that these are two separate issues, and indeed in many ways they are, but the similarity is that in both cases the discussion hinges on what circumstances it is justifiable to end someone’s life and by ignoring the social consequences and purely judging the amount the crimes committed by fetus and by the criminal, the criminal is (potentially) guilty of a serious crime while the fetus is not. It all comes back to the million dollar question, at what point does a fetus become a baby but that information is not available to us because the science to determine at which point we become conscious still isn’t there, so we cannot answer that question therefore I have decided to turn towards the social consequences of abortion and the death penalty to decide whether I am for or against them. And I have reached the conclusion that while the death penalty does not seriously deter crime banning abortion has a significantly adverse effect on society by causing dangerous illegal abortions. There is a possibility that some pro-lifers may feel like these are not my real motives and will therefore bypass all of the points I have made and accuse me of actually being in favour of abortion because I want to have sex without repercussions, this is a motive fallacy as well as whataboutism or a tu quoque, of the same kind by the way used by the pro-life movement when they say that men should not have a say on whether abortion should be allowed or not, as if the validity of an opinion depended on gender. Nonetheless so that it doesn’t look like I am trying to dodge an accusation merely by quoting this or that fallacy, I will answer such accusations in kind by asking the following question from them: Do you want sex to have dire consequences? It goes without saying that sex has got its risks whether we want them to be there or not and I believe that we should do what is necessary to reduce such risks, now as to what exactly is necessary to reduce such risks is debatable but accusing pro-lifers of wanting to have sex without repercussions is disingenuous as it would suggest that we ought to make the repercussions for having sex as painful and damaging as possible.

Note: Please do not say that not all killing is murder because that opens the can of worms that is saying that the killings we find convenient are not murder while those that our opponents find convenient are murders. Please do not engage in such sophistry.

Finally on a related note I have to say that positive natality is evil, by this I mean politically mandated higher birthrates, now communist Romania(Ceausescu’s Romania) was obviously an extreme form of this. Now I know that a lot of people are extremely worried by the reduction in birth rates in the West and in the Far East but we must not panic, eventually the economic situation is going to become so dire that the birth rates will increase again as people become poorer and so less educated or the economic situation may improve and birth rates may improve. What the state should do is not hand out money to women who have more children as this ends up with women having more children than they can raise just to get the money, no what the state should do is to make it cheaper to bring up children and to give more opportunities to the young, or in other words do what’s necessary to improve the economic situation. Mass immigration can only be a temporary patch and as it has become clear that can have negative effects on the stability of the state.
